	Licensing policy FreeDomo project

FreeDomo: Free and open domotica for the masses
Copyright (c) 2012 Stichting Bitlair, Rudy Hardeman and Nils Vogels

    This document is free: you can redistribute it and/or modify
    it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
    the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
    (at your option) any later version.

    This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
    but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
    MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
    GNU General Public License for more details.

    You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
    along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

Licensing summary
=================

1. We use GPL-3 for all software, protocol and implementation 
   documentation
2. We use TAPR-OHW for all designs and other works of art

In short this means that you may:

1. Share, copy, distribute and transmit this work
2. Adapt this work
3. Use this work commercialy
4. Fabricate hardware based on this work

Provided that you:

1. Attribute this work as detailed further in this document
2. Release any alterations, transformations or builds upon this work under the
same license as the source


Oh and:

Copyright holders are not responsible for any damages coming from using this
work in any way possible. Devices described here may or may not function,
malfunction or cause damage. We are not responsible.

Annoying legal part
===================

The FreeDomo project uses two licenses, since there is no one
license to rule them all at this point in time.

SOFTWARE LICENSE:

All software and protocol related documentation is released to the public upon
creation under the GPL-3.0 license as detailed at http://opensource.org/licenses/GPL-3.0
with the following additions:

ATTRIBUTON:

Attribution should go out to the FreeDomo project, with the specific text:

"inspired by the FreeDomo Project https://freedomo.org/" 
and must be readible to the human eye without magnifying tools

if this is not possible due to lack of presentation space, this may be replaced
by:

"FDP - https://freedomo.org" 
and must be readible to the human eye without magnifying tools

DESIGN LICENSE:

Since GPL-3.0 does not fully cover hardware related works, we have chosen an
alternate license for all hardware/design related works.

All works not covering protocol specification or documentation of best practises 
is released to the public upon creation under the TAPR OHW license as detailed at
http://www.tapr.org/ohl

This license is to be considered the fallback license for the entire project. 
Anything not explicitly declared to be released under a different license is 
released under the TAPR OHW license. You can find the appropriate license on
the piece of art itself, or in the directory you found the design files in.

=== GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE ===

GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE

Version 3, 29 June 2007

Copyright (C) 2007 Free Software Foundation, Inc. <http://fsf.org/>

Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies of this license
document, but changing it is not allowed.
Preamble

The GNU General Public License is a free, copyleft license for software and
other kinds of works.

The licenses for most software and other practical works are designed to take
away your freedom to share and change the works. By contrast, the GNU General
Public License is intended to guarantee your freedom to share and change all
versions of a program--to make sure it remains free software for all its
users. We, the Free Software Foundation, use the GNU General Public License
for most of our software; it applies also to any other work released this way
by its authors. You can apply it to your programs, too.

When we speak of free software, we are referring to freedom, not price. Our
General Public Licenses are designed to make sure that you have the freedom to
distribute copies of free software (and charge for them if you wish), that you
receive source code or can get it if you want it, that you can change the
software or use pieces of it in new free programs, and that you know you can
do these things.

To protect your rights, we need to prevent others from denying you these
rights or asking you to surrender the rights. Therefore, you have certain
responsibilities if you distribute copies of the software, or if you modify
it: responsibilities to respect the freedom of others.

For example, if you distribute copies of such a program, whether gratis or for
a fee, you must pass on to the recipients the same freedoms that you received.
You must make sure that they, too, receive or can get the source code. And you
must show them these terms so they know their rights.

Developers that use the GNU GPL protect your rights with two steps: (1) assert
copyright on the software, and (2) offer you this License giving you legal
permission to copy, distribute and/or modify it.

For the developers' and authors' protection, the GPL clearly explains that
there is no warranty for this free software. For both users' and authors'
sake, the GPL requires that modified versions be marked as changed, so that
their problems will not be attributed erroneously to authors of previous
versions.

Some devices are designed to deny users access to install or run modified
versions of the software inside them, although the manufacturer can do so.
This is fundamentally incompatible with the aim of protecting users' freedom
to change the software. The systematic pattern of such abuse occurs in the
area of products for individuals to use, which is precisely where it is most
unacceptable. Therefore, we have designed this version of the GPL to prohibit
the practice for those products. If such problems arise substantially in other
domains, we stand ready to extend this provision to those domains in future
versions of the GPL, as needed to protect the freedom of users.

Finally, every program is threatened constantly by software patents. States
should not allow patents to restrict development and use of software on
general-purpose computers, but in those that do, we wish to avoid the special
danger that patents applied to a free program could make it effectively
proprietary. To prevent this, the GPL assures that patents cannot be used to
render the program non-free.

The precise terms and conditions for copying, distribution and modification
follow.
TERMS AND CONDITIONS
0. Definitions.

“This License” refers to version 3 of the GNU General Public License.

“Copyright” also means copyright-like laws that apply to other kinds of works,
such as semiconductor masks.

“The Program” refers to any copyrightable work licensed under this License.
Each licensee is addressed as “you”. “Licensees” and “recipients” may be
individuals or organizations.

To “modify” a work means to copy from or adapt all or part of the work in a
fashion requiring copyright permission, other than the making of an exact
copy. The resulting work is called a “modified version” of the earlier work or
a work “based on” the earlier work.

A “covered work” means either the unmodified Program or a work based on the
Program.

To “propagate” a work means to do anything with it that, without permission,
would make you directly or secondarily liable for infringement under
applicable copyright law, except executing it on a computer or modifying a
private copy. Propagation includes copying, distribution (with or without
modification), making available to the public, and in some countries other
activities as well.

To “convey” a work means any kind of propagation that enables other parties to
make or receive copies. Mere interaction with a user through a computer
network, with no transfer of a copy, is not conveying.

An interactive user interface displays “Appropriate Legal Notices” to the
extent that it includes a convenient and prominently visible feature that (1)
displays an appropriate copyright notice, and (2) tells the user that there is
no warranty for the work (except to the extent that warranties are provided),
that licensees may convey the work under this License, and how to view a copy
of this License. If the interface presents a list of user commands or options,
such as a menu, a prominent item in the list meets this criterion.
1. Source Code.

The “source code” for a work means the preferred form of the work for making
modifications to it. “Object code” means any non-source form of a work.

A “Standard Interface” means an interface that either is an official standard
defined by a recognized standards body, or, in the case of interfaces
specified for a particular programming language, one that is widely used among
developers working in that language.

The “System Libraries” of an executable work include anything, other than the
work as a whole, that (a) is included in the normal form of packaging a Major
Component, but which is not part of that Major Component, and (b) serves only
to enable use of the work with that Major Component, or to implement a
Standard Interface for which an implementation is available to the public in
source code form. A “Major Component”, in this context, means a major
essential component (kernel, window system, and so on) of the specific
operating system (if any) on which the executable work runs, or a compiler
used to produce the work, or an object code interpreter used to run it.

The “Corresponding Source” for a work in object code form means all the source
code needed to generate, install, and (for an executable work) run the object
code and to modify the work, including scripts to control those activities.
However, it does not include the work's System Libraries, or general-purpose
tools or generally available free programs which are used unmodified in
performing those activities but which are not part of the work. For example,
Corresponding Source includes interface definition files associated with
source files for the work, and the source code for shared libraries and
dynamically linked subprograms that the work is specifically designed to
require, such as by intimate data communication or control flow between those
subprograms and other parts of the work.

The Corresponding Source need not include anything that users can regenerate
automatically from other parts of the Corresponding Source.

The Corresponding Source for a work in source code form is that same work.
2. Basic Permissions.

All rights granted under this License are granted for the term of copyright on
the Program, and are irrevocable provided the stated conditions are met. This
License explicitly affirms your unlimited permission to run the unmodified
Program. The output from running a covered work is covered by this License
only if the output, given its content, constitutes a covered work. This
License acknowledges your rights of fair use or other equivalent, as provided
by copyright law.

You may make, run and propagate covered works that you do not convey, without
conditions so long as your license otherwise remains in force. You may convey
covered works to others for the sole purpose of having them make modifications
exclusively for you, or provide you with facilities for running those works,
provided that you comply with the terms of this License in conveying all
material for which you do not control copyright. Those thus making or running
the covered works for you must do so exclusively on your behalf, under your
direction and control, on terms that prohibit them from making any copies of
your copyrighted material outside their relationship with you.

Conveying under any other circumstances is permitted solely under the
conditions stated below. Sublicensing is not allowed; section 10 makes it
unnecessary.
3. Protecting Users' Legal Rights From Anti-Circumvention Law.

No covered work shall be deemed part of an effective technological measure
under any applicable law fulfilling obligations under article 11 of the WIPO
copyright treaty adopted on 20 December 1996, or similar laws prohibiting or
restricting circumvention of such measures.

When you convey a covered work, you waive any legal power to forbid
circumvention of technological measures to the extent such circumvention is
effected by exercising rights under this License with respect to the covered
work, and you disclaim any intention to limit operation or modification of the
work as a means of enforcing, against the work's users, your or third parties'
legal rights to forbid circumvention of technological measures.
4. Conveying Verbatim Copies.

You may convey verbatim copies of the Program's source code as you receive it,
in any medium, provided that you conspicuously and appropriately publish on
each copy an appropriate copyright notice; keep intact all notices stating
that this License and any non-permissive terms added in accord with section 7
apply to the code; keep intact all notices of the absence of any warranty; and
give all recipients a copy of this License along with the Program.

You may charge any price or no price for each copy that you convey, and you
may offer support or warranty protection for a fee.
5. Conveying Modified Source Versions.

You may convey a work based on the Program, or the modifications to produce it
from the Program, in the form of source code under the terms of section 4,
provided that you also meet all of these conditions:

    a) The work must carry prominent notices stating that you modified it, and
giving a relevant date.
    b) The work must carry prominent notices stating that it is released under
this License and any conditions added under section 7. This requirement
modifies the requirement in section 4 to “keep intact all notices”.
    c) You must license the entire work, as a whole, under this License to
anyone who comes into possession of a copy. This License will therefore apply,
along with any applicable section 7 additional terms, to the whole of the
work, and all its parts, regardless of how they are packaged. This License
gives no permission to license the work in any other way, but it does not
invalidate such permission if you have separately received it.
    d) If the work has interactive user interfaces, each must display
Appropriate Legal Notices; however, if the Program has interactive interfaces
that do not display Appropriate Legal Notices, your work need not make them do
so.

A compilation of a covered work with other separate and independent works,
which are not by their nature extensions of the covered work, and which are
not combined with it such as to form a larger program, in or on a volume of a
storage or distribution medium, is called an “aggregate” if the compilation
and its resulting copyright are not used to limit the access or legal rights
of the compilation's users beyond what the individual works permit. Inclusion
of a covered work in an aggregate does not cause this License to apply to the
other parts of the aggregate.
6. Conveying Non-Source Forms.

You may convey a covered work in object code form under the terms of sections
4 and 5, provided that you also convey the machine-readable Corresponding
Source under the terms of this License, in one of these ways:

    a) Convey the object code in, or embodied in, a physical product
(including a physical distribution medium), accompanied by the Corresponding
Source fixed on a durable physical medium customarily used for software
interchange.
    b) Convey the object code in, or embodied in, a physical product
(including a physical distribution medium), accompanied by a written offer,
valid for at least three years and valid for as long as you offer spare parts
or customer support for that product model, to give anyone who possesses the
object code either (1) a copy of the Corresponding Source for all the software
in the product that is covered by this License, on a durable physical medium
customarily used for software interchange, for a price no more than your
reasonable cost of physically performing this conveying of source, or (2)
access to copy the Corresponding Source from a network server at no charge.
    c) Convey individual copies of the object code with a copy of the written
offer to provide the Corresponding Source. This alternative is allowed only
occasionally and noncommercially, and only if you received the object code
with such an offer, in accord with subsection 6b.
    d) Convey the object code by offering access from a designated place
(gratis or for a charge), and offer equivalent access to the Corresponding
Source in the same way through the same place at no further charge. You need
not require recipients to copy the Corresponding Source along with the object
code. If the place to copy the object code is a network server, the
Corresponding Source may be on a different server (operated by you or a third
party) that supports equivalent copying facilities, provided you maintain
clear directions next to the object code saying where to find the
Corresponding Source. Regardless of what server hosts the Corresponding
Source, you remain obligated to ensure that it is available for as long as
needed to satisfy these requirements.
    e) Convey the object code using peer-to-peer transmission, provided you
inform other peers where the object code and Corresponding Source of the work
are being offered to the general public at no charge under subsection 6d.

A separable portion of the object code, whose source code is excluded from the
Corresponding Source as a System Library, need not be included in conveying
the object code work.

A “User Product” is either (1) a “consumer product”, which means any tangible
personal property which is normally used for personal, family, or household
purposes, or (2) anything designed or sold for incorporation into a dwelling.
In determining whether a product is a consumer product, doubtful cases shall
be resolved in favor of coverage. For a particular product received by a
particular user, “normally used” refers to a typical or common use of that
class of product, regardless of the status of the particular user or of the
way in which the particular user actually uses, or expects or is expected to
use, the product. A product is a consumer product regardless of whether the
product has substantial commercial, industrial or non-consumer uses, unless
such uses represent the only significant mode of use of the product.

“Installation Information” for a User Product means any methods, procedures,
authorization keys, or other information required to install and execute
modified versions of a covered work in that User Product from a modified
version of its Corresponding Source. The information must suffice to ensure
that the continued functioning of the modified object code is in no case
prevented or interfered with solely because modification has been made.

If you convey an object code work under this section in, or with, or
specifically for use in, a User Product, and the conveying occurs as part of a
transaction in which the right of possession and use of the User Product is
transferred to the recipient in perpetuity or for a fixed term (regardless of
how the transaction is characterized), the Corresponding Source conveyed under
this section must be accompanied by the Installation Information. But this
requirement does not apply if neither you nor any third party retains the
ability to install modified object code on the User Product (for example, the
work has been installed in ROM).

The requirement to provide Installation Information does not include a
requirement to continue to provide support service, warranty, or updates for a
work that has been modified or installed by the recipient, or for the User
Product in which it has been modified or installed. Access to a network may be
denied when the modification itself materially and adversely affects the
operation of the network or violates the rules and protocols for communication
across the network.

Corresponding Source conveyed, and Installation Information provided, in
accord with this section must be in a format that is publicly documented (and
with an implementation available to the public in source code form), and must
require no special password or key for unpacking, reading or copying.
7. Additional Terms.

“Additional permissions” are terms that supplement the terms of this License
by making exceptions from one or more of its conditions. Additional
permissions that are applicable to the entire Program shall be treated as
though they were included in this License, to the extent that they are valid
under applicable law. If additional permissions apply only to part of the
Program, that part may be used separately under those permissions, but the
entire Program remains governed by this License without regard to the
additional permissions.

When you convey a copy of a covered work, you may at your option remove any
additional permissions from that copy, or from any part of it. (Additional
permissions may be written to require their own removal in certain cases when
you modify the work.) You may place additional permissions on material, added
by you to a covered work, for which you have or can give appropriate copyright
permission.

Notwithstanding any other provision of this License, for material you add to a
covered work, you may (if authorized by the copyright holders of that
material) supplement the terms of this License with terms:

    a) Disclaiming warranty or limiting liability differently from the terms
of sections 15 and 16 of this License; or
    b) Requiring preservation of specified reasonable legal notices or author
attributions in that material or in the Appropriate Legal Notices displayed by
works containing it; or
    c) Prohibiting misrepresentation of the origin of that material, or
requiring that modified versions of such material be marked in reasonable ways
as different from the original version; or
    d) Limiting the use for publicity purposes of names of licensors or
authors of the material; or
    e) Declining to grant rights under trademark law for use of some trade
names, trademarks, or service marks; or
    f) Requiring indemnification of licensors and authors of that material by
anyone who conveys the material (or modified versions of it) with contractual
assumptions of liability to the recipient, for any liability that these
contractual assumptions directly impose on those licensors and authors.

All other non-permissive additional terms are considered “further
restrictions” within the meaning of section 10. If the Program as you received
it, or any part of it, contains a notice stating that it is governed by this
License along with a term that is a further restriction, you may remove that
term. If a license document contains a further restriction but permits
relicensing or conveying under this License, you may add to a covered work
material governed by the terms of that license document, provided that the
further restriction does not survive such relicensing or conveying.

If you add terms to a covered work in accord with this section, you must
place, in the relevant source files, a statement of the additional terms that
apply to those files, or a notice indicating where to find the applicable
terms.

Additional terms, permissive or non-permissive, may be stated in the form of a
separately written license, or stated as exceptions; the above requirements
apply either way.
8. Termination.

You may not propagate or modify a covered work except as expressly provided
under this License. Any attempt otherwise to propagate or modify it is void,
and will automatically terminate your rights under this License (including any
patent licenses granted under the third paragraph of section 11).

However, if you cease all violation of this License, then your license from a
particular copyright holder is reinstated (a) provisionally, unless and until
the copyright holder explicitly and finally terminates your license, and (b)
permanently, if the copyright holder fails to notify you of the violation by
some reasonable means prior to 60 days after the cessation.

Moreover, your license from a particular copyright holder is reinstated
permanently if the copyright holder notifies you of the violation by some
reasonable means, this is the first time you have received notice of violation
of this License (for any work) from that copyright holder, and you cure the
violation prior to 30 days after your receipt of the notice.

Termination of your rights under this section does not terminate the licenses
of parties who have received copies or rights from you under this License. If
your rights have been terminated and not permanently reinstated, you do not
qualify to receive new licenses for the same material under section 10.
9. Acceptance Not Required for Having Copies.

You are not required to accept this License in order to receive or run a copy
of the Program. Ancillary propagation of a covered work occurring solely as a
consequence of using peer-to-peer transmission to receive a copy likewise does
not require acceptance. However, nothing other than this License grants you
permission to propagate or modify any covered work. These actions infringe
copyright if you do not accept this License. Therefore, by modifying or
propagating a covered work, you indicate your acceptance of this License to do
so.
10. Automatic Licensing of Downstream Recipients.

Each time you convey a covered work, the recipient automatically receives a
license from the original licensors, to run, modify and propagate that work,
subject to this License. You are not responsible for enforcing compliance by
third parties with this License.

An “entity transaction” is a transaction transferring control of an
organization, or substantially all assets of one, or subdividing an
organization, or merging organizations. If propagation of a covered work
results from an entity transaction, each party to that transaction who
receives a copy of the work also receives whatever licenses to the work the
party's predecessor in interest had or could give under the previous
paragraph, plus a right to possession of the Corresponding Source of the work
from the predecessor in interest, if the predecessor has it or can get it with
reasonable efforts.

You may not impose any further restrictions on the exercise of the rights
granted or affirmed under this License. For example, you may not impose a
license fee, royalty, or other charge for exercise of rights granted under
this License, and you may not initiate litigation (including a cross-claim or
counterclaim in a lawsuit) alleging that any patent claim is infringed by
making, using, selling, offering for sale, or importing the Program or any
portion of it.
11. Patents.

A “contributor” is a copyright holder who authorizes use under this License of
the Program or a work on which the Program is based. The work thus licensed is
called the contributor's “contributor version”.

A contributor's “essential patent claims” are all patent claims owned or
controlled by the contributor, whether already acquired or hereafter acquired,
that would be infringed by some manner, permitted by this License, of making,
using, or selling its contributor version, but do not include claims that
would be infringed only as a consequence of further modification of the
contributor version. For purposes of this definition, “control” includes the
right to grant patent sublicenses in a manner consistent with the requirements
of this License.

Each contributor grants you a non-exclusive, worldwide, royalty-free patent
license under the contributor's essential patent claims, to make, use, sell,
offer for sale, import and otherwise run, modify and propagate the contents of
its contributor version.

In the following three paragraphs, a “patent license” is any express agreement
or commitment, however denominated, not to enforce a patent (such as an
express permission to practice a patent or covenant not to sue for patent
infringement). To “grant” such a patent license to a party means to make such
an agreement or commitment not to enforce a patent against the party.

If you convey a covered work, knowingly relying on a patent license, and the
Corresponding Source of the work is not available for anyone to copy, free of
charge and under the terms of this License, through a publicly available
network server or other readily accessible means, then you must either (1)
cause the Corresponding Source to be so available, or (2) arrange to deprive
yourself of the benefit of the patent license for this particular work, or (3)
arrange, in a manner consistent with the requirements of this License, to
extend the patent license to downstream recipients. “Knowingly relying” means
you have actual knowledge that, but for the patent license, your conveying the
covered work in a country, or your recipient's use of the covered work in a
country, would infringe one or more identifiable patents in that country that
you have reason to believe are valid.

If, pursuant to or in connection with a single transaction or arrangement, you
convey, or propagate by procuring conveyance of, a covered work, and grant a
patent license to some of the parties receiving the covered work authorizing
them to use, propagate, modify or convey a specific copy of the covered work,
then the patent license you grant is automatically extended to all recipients
of the covered work and works based on it.

A patent license is “discriminatory” if it does not include within the scope
of its coverage, prohibits the exercise of, or is conditioned on the
non-exercise of one or more of the rights that are specifically granted under
this License. You may not convey a covered work if you are a party to an
arrangement with a third party that is in the business of distributing
software, under which you make payment to the third party based on the extent
of your activity of conveying the work, and under which the third party
grants, to any of the parties who would receive the covered work from you, a
discriminatory patent license (a) in connection with copies of the covered
work conveyed by you (or copies made from those copies), or (b) primarily for
and in connection with specific products or compilations that contain the
covered work, unless you entered into that arrangement, or that patent license
was granted, prior to 28 March 2007.

Nothing in this License shall be construed as excluding or limiting any
implied license or other defenses to infringement that may otherwise be
available to you under applicable patent law.
12. No Surrender of Others' Freedom.

If conditions are imposed on you (whether by court order, agreement or
otherwise) that contradict the conditions of this License, they do not excuse
you from the conditions of this License. If you cannot convey a covered work
so as to satisfy simultaneously your obligations under this License and any
other pertinent obligations, then as a consequence you may not convey it at
all. For example, if you agree to terms that obligate you to collect a royalty
for further conveying from those to whom you convey the Program, the only way
you could satisfy both those terms and this License would be to refrain
entirely from conveying the Program.
13. Use with the GNU Affero General Public License.

Notwithstanding any other provision of this License, you have permission to
link or combine any covered work with a work licensed under version 3 of the
GNU Affero General Public License into a single combined work, and to convey
the resulting work. The terms of this License will continue to apply to the
part which is the covered work, but the special requirements of the GNU Affero
General Public License, section 13, concerning interaction through a network
will apply to the combination as such.
14. Revised Versions of this License.

The Free Software Foundation may publish revised and/or new versions of the
GNU General Public License from time to time. Such new versions will be
similar in spirit to the present version, but may differ in detail to address
new problems or concerns.

Each version is given a distinguishing version number. If the Program
specifies that a certain numbered version of the GNU General Public License
“or any later version” applies to it, you have the option of following the
terms and conditions either of that numbered version or of any later version
published by the Free Software Foundation. If the Program does not specify a
version number of the GNU General Public License, you may choose any version
ever published by the Free Software Foundation.

If the Program specifies that a proxy can decide which future versions of the
GNU General Public License can be used, that proxy's public statement of
acceptance of a version permanently authorizes you to choose that version for
the Program.

Later license versions may give you additional or different permissions.
However, no additional obligations are imposed on any author or copyright
holder as a result of your choosing to follow a later version.
15. Disclaimer of Warranty.

THERE IS NO WARRANTY FOR THE PROGRAM, TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE
LAW. EXCEPT WHEN OTHERWISE STATED IN WRITING THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND/OR
OTHER PARTIES PROVIDE THE PROGRAM “AS IS” WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER
EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A THE ENTIRE RISK AS TO THE QUALITY AND
PERFORMANCE OF THE PROGRAM IS WITH YOU. SHOULD THE PROGRAM PROVE DEFECTIVE,
YOU ASSUME THE COST OF ALL NECESSARY SERVICING, REPAIR OR CORRECTION.
16. Limitation of Liability.

IN NO EVENT UNLESS REQUIRED BY APPLICABLE LAW OR AGREED TO IN WRITING WILL ANY
COPYRIGHT HOLDER, OR ANY OTHER PARTY WHO MODIFIES AND/OR CONVEYS THE PROGRAM
AS PERMITTED ABOVE, BE LIABLE TO YOU FOR DAMAGES, INCLUDING ANY GENERAL,
SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF THE USE OR
INABILITY TO USE THE PROGRAM (INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO LOSS OF DATA OR
DATA BEING RENDERED INACCURATE OR LOSSES SUSTAINED BY YOU OR THIRD PARTIES OR
A FAILURE OF THE PROGRAM TO OPERATE WITH ANY OTHER PROGRAMS), EVEN IF SUCH
HOLDER OR OTHER PARTY HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.
17. Interpretation of Sections 15 and 16.

If the disclaimer of warranty and limitation of liability provided above
cannot be given local legal effect according to their terms, reviewing courts
shall apply local law that most closely approximates an absolute waiver of all
civil liability in connection with the Program, unless a warranty or
assumption of liability accompanies a copy of the Program in return for a fee.

END OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS

=== TAPR OHW LICENSE ===

The TAPR Open Hardware License
Version 1.0 (May 25, 2007)
Copyright 2007 TAPR - http://www.tapr.org/OHL

PREAMBLE

Open Hardware is a thing - a physical artifact, either electrical or
mechanical - whose design information is available to, and usable by,
the public in a way that allows anyone to make, modify, distribute, and
use that thing.  In this preface, design information is called
"documentation" and things created from it are called "products."

The TAPR Open Hardware License ("OHL") agreement provides a legal
framework for Open Hardware projects.  It may be used for any kind of
product, be it a hammer or a computer motherboard, and is TAPR's
contribution to the community; anyone may use the OHL for their Open
Hardware project.

Like the GNU General Public License, the OHL is designed to guarantee
your freedom to share and to create.  It forbids anyone who receives
rights under the OHL to deny any other licensee those same rights to
copy, modify, and distribute documentation, and to make, use and
distribute products based on that documentation.

Unlike the GPL, the OHL is not primarily a copyright license.  While
copyright protects documentation from unauthorized copying, modification, 
and distribution, it has little to do with your right to make, distribute, 
or use a product based on that documentation.  For better or worse, patents 
play a significant role in those activities.  Although it does not prohibit 
anyone from patenting inventions embodied in an Open Hardware design, and 
of course cannot prevent a third party from enforcing their patent rights, 
those who benefit from an OHL design may not bring lawsuits claiming that
design infringes their patents or other intellectual property.

The OHL addresses unique issues involved in the creation of tangible,
physical things, but does not cover software, firmware, or code loaded
into programmable devices.  A copyright-oriented license such as the GPL
better suits these creations.

How can you use the OHL, or a design based upon it?  While the terms and
conditions below take precedence over this preamble, here is a summary:

*  You may modify the documentation and make products based upon it.

*  You may use products for any legal purpose without limitation.

*  You may distribute unmodified documentation, but you must include the
complete package as you received it.

*  You may distribute products you make to third parties, if you either
include the documentation on which the product is based, or make it
available without charge for at least three years to anyone who requests
it.

*  You may distribute modified documentation or products based on it, if
you:
    *  License your modifications under the OHL.
    *  Include those modifications, following the requirements stated
       below.
    *  Attempt to send the modified documentation by email to any of the
       developers who have provided their email address.  This is a good
       faith obligation - if the email fails, you need do nothing more
       and may go on with your distribution.

*  If you create a design that you want to license under the OHL, you
should:
    *  Include this document in a file named LICENSE (with the appropriate
       extension) that is included in the documentation package.
    *  If the file format allows, include a notice like "Licensed under
       the TAPR Open Hardware License (www.tapr.org/OHL)" in each
       documentation file.  While not required, you should also include
       this notice on printed circuit board artwork and the product
       itself; if space is limited the notice can be shortened or
       abbreviated.
    *  Include a copyright notice in each file and on printed circuit
       board artwork.
    *  If you wish to be notified of modifications that others may make,
       include your email address in a file named "CONTRIB.TXT" or
       something similar.

*  Any time the OHL requires you to make documentation available to
others, you must include all the materials you received from the
upstream licensors.  In addition, if you have modified the
documentation:
    *  You must identify the modifications in a text file (preferably
       named "CHANGES.TXT") that you include with the documentation. 
       That file must also include a statement like "These modifications
       are licensed under the TAPR Open Hardware License."
    *  You must include any new files you created, including any
       manufacturing files (such as Gerber files) you create in the
       course of making products.
    *  You must include both "before" and "after" versions of all files
       you modified.
    *  You may include files in proprietary formats, but you must also
       include open format versions (such as Gerber, ASCII, Postscript,
       or PDF) if your tools can create them.

TERMS AND CONDITIONS

1.   Introduction
1.1  This Agreement governs how you may use, copy, modify, and
distribute Documentation, and how you may make, have made, and
distribute Products based on that Documentation.  As used in this
Agreement, to "distribute" Documentation means to directly or indirectly
make copies available to a third party, and to "distribute" Products
means to directly or indirectly give, loan, sell or otherwise transfer
them to a third party.

1.2  "Documentation" includes:
     (a) schematic diagrams;
     (b) circuit or circuit board layouts, including Gerber and other
         data files used for manufacture;
     (c) mechanical drawings, including CAD, CAM, and other data files
         used for manufacture;
     (d) flow charts and descriptive text; and
     (e) other explanatory material.
Documentation may be in any tangible or intangible form of expression,
including but not limited to computer files in open or proprietary
formats and representations on paper, film, or other media.

1.3  "Products" include:
     (a) circuit boards, mechanical assemblies, and other physical parts
         and components;
     (b) assembled or partially assembled units (including components
         and subassemblies); and
     (c) parts and components combined into kits intended for assembly
         by others;
which are based in whole or in part on the Documentation.

1.4  This Agreement applies to any Documentation which contains a
notice stating it is subject to the TAPR Open Hardware License, and to
all Products based in whole or in part on that Documentation.  If
Documentation is distributed in an archive (such as a "zip" file) which
includes this document, all files in that archive are subject to this
Agreement unless they are specifically excluded.  Each person who
contributes content to the Documentation is referred to in this
Agreement as a "Licensor."

1.5  By (a) using, copying, modifying, or distributing the
Documentation, or (b) making or having Products made or distributing
them, you accept this Agreement, agree to comply with its terms, and
become a "Licensee."  Any activity inconsistent with this Agreement will
automatically terminate your rights under it (including the immunities
from suit granted in Section 2), but the rights of others who have
received Documentation, or have obtained Products, directly or
indirectly from you will not be affected so long as they fully comply
with it themselves.

1.6  This Agreement does not apply to software, firmware, or code
loaded into programmable devices which may be used in conjunction with
Documentation or Products.  Such software is subject to the license
terms established by its copyright holder(s).

2.   Patents
2.1  Each Licensor grants you, every other Licensee, and every
possessor or user of Products a perpetual, worldwide, and royalty-free
immunity from suit under any patent, patent application, or other
intellectual property right which he or she controls, to the extent
necessary to make, have made, possess, use, and distribute Products.
This immunity does not extend to infringement arising from modifications
subsequently made by others.

2.2  If you make or have Products made, or distribute Documentation
that you have modified, you grant every Licensor, every other Licensee,
and every possessor or user of Products a perpetual, worldwide, and
royalty-free immunity from suit under any patent, patent application, or
other intellectual property right which you control, to the extent
necessary to make, have made, possess, use, and distribute Products.
This immunity does not extend to infringement arising from modifications
subsequently made by others.

2.3  To avoid doubt, providing Documentation to a third party for the
sole purpose of having that party make Products on your behalf is not
considered "distribution,"\" and a third party's act of making Products
solely on your behalf does not cause that party to grant the immunity
described in the preceding paragraph.

2.4  These grants of immunity are a material part of this Agreement,
and form a portion of the consideration given by each party to the
other.  If any court judgment or legal agreement prevents you from
granting the immunity required by this Section, your rights under this
Agreement will terminate and you may no longer use, copy, modify or
distribute the Documentation, or make, have made, or distribute
Products.

3.   Modifications
You may modify the Documentation, and those modifications will become
part of the Documentation.  They are subject to this Agreement, as are
Products based in whole or in part on them.  If you distribute the
modified Documentation, or Products based in whole or in part upon it,
you must email the modified Documentation in a form compliant with
Section 4 to each Licensor who has provided an email address with the
Documentation.  Attempting to send the email completes your obligations
under this Section and you need take no further action if any address
fails.

4.   Distributing Documentation
4.1  You may distribute unmodified copies of the Documentation in its
entirety in any medium, provided that you retain all copyright and other
notices (including references to this Agreement) included by each
Licensor, and include an unaltered copy of this Agreement.
4.2  You may distribute modified copies of the Documentation if you
comply with all the requirements of the preceding paragraph and:
     (a) include a prominent notice in an ASCII or other open format
         file identifying those elements of the Documentation that you
         changed, and stating that the modifications are licensed under
         the terms of this Agreement;
     (b) include all new documentation files that you create, as well as
         both the original and modified versions of each file you change
         (files may be in your development tool's native file format,
         but if reasonably possible, you must also include open format,
         such as Gerber, ASCII, Postscript, or PDF, versions);
     (c) do not change the terms of this Agreement with respect to
         subsequent licensees; and
     (d) if you make or have Products made, include in the Documentation
         all elements reasonably required to permit others to make
         Products, including Gerber, CAD/CAM and other files used for
         manufacture.

5.   Making Products
5.1  You may use the Documentation to make or have Products made,
provided that each Product retains any notices included by the Licensor
(including, but not limited to, copyright notices on circuit boards).
5.2  You may distribute Products you make or have made, provided that
you include with each unit a copy of the Documentation in a form
consistent with Section 4.  Alternatively, you may include either (i) an
offer valid for at least three years to provide that Documentation, at
no charge other than the reasonable cost of media and postage, to any
person who requests it; or (ii) a URL where that Documentation may be
downloaded, available for at least three years after you last distribute
the Product.

6.   NEW LICENSE VERSIONS
TAPR may publish updated versions of the OHL which retain the same
general provisions as the present version, but differ in detail to
address new problems or concerns, and carry a distinguishing version
number.  If the Documentation specifies a version number which applies
to it and "any later version", you may choose either that version or any
later version published by TAPR.  If the Documentation does not specify
a version number, you may choose any version ever published by TAPR. 
TAPR owns the copyright to the OHL, but grants permission to any person
to copy, distribute, and use it in unmodified form.

7.   WARRANTY AND LIABILITY LIMITATIONS
7.1  THE DOCUMENTATION IS PROVIDED ON AN"AS-IS" BASIS WITHOUT
WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW.  ALL
WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO ANY
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, AND
TITLE, ARE HEREBY EXPRESSLY DISCLAIMED.
7.2  IN NO EVENT UNLESS REQUIRED BY APPLICABLE LAW WILL ANY LICENSOR
BE LIABLE TO YOU OR ANY THIRD PARTY FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT,
INCIDENTAL, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE, OR EXEMPLARY DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF
THE USE OF, OR INABILITY TO USE, THE DOCUMENTATION OR PRODUCTS,
INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO CLAIMS OF INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY
INFRINGEMENT OR LOSS OF DATA, EVEN IF THAT PARTY HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE
POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.
7.3  You agree that the foregoing limitations are reasonable due to
the non-financial nature of the transaction represented by this
Agreement, and acknowledge that were it not for these limitations, the
Licensor(s) would not be willing to make the Documentation available to
you.
7.4  You agree to defend, indemnify, and hold each Licensor harmless
from any claim brought by a third party alleging any defect in the
design, manufacture, or operation of any Product which you make, have
made, or distribute pursuant to this Agreement.
                                 ####

